[docs] Guide how to add SAML to a deployment (#523)
elastic/terraform-provider-ec: docs/guides/configuring-sso-ec-deployment.md

---
subcategory: ""
page_title: "Configuring an SSO provider for a deployment"
description: |-

>     An example of how to spin up a deployment preconfigured with a SAML provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    An example of how to create a deployment preconfigured with a SAML provider
```

---

# Configuring a SAML provider for an Elastic Cloud Deployment

> A common use case for the Elastic Cloud Terraform provider i, is to spin up an elastic deployment preconfigured with an SSO Identity provider (SAML2.0 or OIDC based)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common use case for the Elastic Cloud Terraform provider is to spin up an Elastic Cloud deployment preconfigured with an SSO Identity provider (SAML2.0 or OIDC based)
```

> Since such a configuration often results in a cyclic dependency, where the Elasticsearch cluster yaml file requires the cluster full url name, but the url has not been generated yet, we're going to use Elastic Cloud's alias feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relying on the URL generated by Elastic Cloud creates a cyclic dependency, where the Elasticsearch cluster configuration requires the Kibana URL, which only exists after the deployment is created. We can avoid the cyclic dependency by configuring the deployment with an alias, allowing us to know the final Kibana URL before the deployment is created.
```

> Relying on the URL generated by Elastic Cloud creates a cyclic dependency, where the Elasticsearch cluster configuration requires the Kibana URL, which only exists after the deployment is created. We can avoid the cyclic dependency by configuring the deployment with an alias, allowing us to know the final Kibana URL before the deployment is created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Relying on the URL generated by Elastic Cloud creates a cyclic dependency, where the Elasticsearch cluster configuration requires the Kibana URL, which only exists after the deployment is created. You can avoid the cyclic dependency by configuring the deployment with an alias, which allows you to know the final Kibana URL before the deployment is created.
```

*Please note, this guide doesn't go through what's needed to be configured on the IDP side, as this can change for different identity providers*

First, we'll create an "random_uuid" resource, like so:

> ```terraform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```hcl
```

resource "random_uuid" "uuid" {}
```

> This will allow us to use a randomally generated uuid in our deployment name, so that we can later use it within the alias and revieve a unique deployment name & url alias, even before our deploymemnt is actually created. 

Author: @tobio this isn't trivial to achieve though, which is why I'm using the uuid resource.
The problem here is a cyclic dependency between determining the value of the alias (or being able to generate well-known unique aliases *before* the deployment gets created) and setting it in the elasticsearch.yml configuration.

> This will allow us to use a randomally generated uuid in our deployment name, so that we can later use it within the alias and revieve a unique deployment name & url alias, even before our deploymemnt is actually created. 

Reviewer: Around 10% of this guide discusses generating and formatting a UUID so you can have a unique alias. Using a uuid is one way of having a unique alias, but it isn't the only way. IMO it's not a good default to be suggesting. 

IMO we're complicating the guide by adding more detail than is required to achieve the goal. We could simply say something along the lines of "we're going to set an alias, you'll have to make sure it's unique" rather than have to explain the `random_uuid` resource and resulting string formatting. I'd expect, for most customers `<org-name>-<deployment-name>` would be likely to be unique without the extra trailing noise.

> This will allow us to use a randomally generated uuid in our deployment name, so that we can later use it within the alias and revieve a unique deployment name & url alias, even before our deploymemnt is actually created. 

Author: @tobio your assumption is correct only if you ever generate a single deployment.. which isn't the case for users who automate things with TF, for the most part.

Again, I want to "spoon feed" our customers and field, since I'm sure not "solving for alias uniqueness" in this guide, will just leave (mostly myself) with more questions about how to configure SAML on an EC Deployment...

> This will allow us to use a randomally generated uuid in our deployment name, so that we can later use it within the alias and revieve a unique deployment name & url alias, even before our deploymemnt is actually created. 

Reviewer: > which isn't the case for users who automate things with TF

It seems reasonable to expect they would have a different deployment name though. Either way, I don't think this is a hill to die on :). It's a valid approach, just maybe more verbose than I'd choose 👍

Creating the "ec_deployment" resource, will look like this:

> ```terraform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```hcl
```

resource "ec_deployment" "elastic-sso" {
    name = format("%s-%s",var.name,substr("${random_uuid.uuid.result}",0,6))
    alias = format("%s-%s",var.name,substr("${random_uuid.uuid.result}",0,6))
    region = "us-east-1"
    version = "7.17.5"
    deployment_template_id = "aws-compute-optimized-v3"

    elasticsearch {
        topology {
            id = "hot_content"
            size = "8g"
            zone_count = 2
        }

        topology {
            id = "warm"
            size = "8g"
            zone_count = 2
        }

        config{

>            user_settings_yaml = templatefile("./es.yml",{kibana_url=format("https://%s-%s.kb.us-east-1.aws.found.io:9243",var.name,substr("${random_uuid.uuid.result}",0,6))})

Reviewer: AFAICT we can't define a single domain which covers all regions which IMO makes this guide pretty painful to follow. At a minimum, we should mention "first go and create a deployment in the target region and see the format of the Kibana url's in use". 

It would be nice if we could interchangeably use `found.io`, `elastic-cloud.com`, `cloud.es.io` etc within these cluster urls. It would be even nicer if a deployment alias was a separate resource which customers could create before creating a deployment and avoid this whole palaver in the first place.

>            user_settings_yaml = templatefile("./es.yml",{kibana_url=format("https://%s-%s.kb.us-east-1.aws.found.io:9243",var.name,substr("${random_uuid.uuid.result}",0,6))})

Author: i'll run it through fmt. I hardcoded these for sake of simplicity. this isn't about writing "correct code" its about showing how this can be achieved in the most simple form.

>            user_settings_yaml = templatefile("./es.yml",{kibana_url=format("https://%s-%s.kb.us-east-1.aws.found.io:9243",var.name,substr("${random_uuid.uuid.result}",0,6))})

Author: @tobio it doesn't make the guide painful to follow, rather, Elastic Cloud hard to use. It's an ESS problem, that this guide won't ever solve

>            user_settings_yaml = templatefile("./es.yml",{kibana_url=format("https://%s-%s.kb.us-east-1.aws.found.io:9243",var.name,substr("${random_uuid.uuid.result}",0,6))})

Author: I'll note the part that ESS has different URLs though just to make that bit clearer.. but I wouldn't want to introduce variables for it just for easier readability (as I'm not sharing the entire tf configuration, rather only the key parts to get this working)

>            user_settings_yaml = templatefile("./es.yml",{kibana_url=format("https://%s-%s.kb.us-east-1.aws.found.io:9243",var.name,substr("${random_uuid.uuid.result}",0,6))})

Reviewer: > It's an ESS problem, that this guide won't ever solve

Is there a Cloud issue to improve that situation? 

> it doesn't make the guide painful to follow

1. Create a deployment in the Cloud console in the region you want to use
2. Take a note of the format of the cluster endpoints
3. Transpose that format into the kibana_url defined here

That sounds pretty painful to me, whether we include those steps in the guide or not in reality it's what we're asking our customers to do. To be clear, I don't expect this guide to fix the underlying issue, but surely it's an issue we'd like to fix in some way? Do you know if there's an existing issue to standardise the regional domains, or implement some other solution?

>            user_settings_yaml = templatefile("./es.yml",{kibana_url=format("https://%s-%s.kb.us-east-1.aws.found.io:9243",var.name,substr("${random_uuid.uuid.result}",0,6))})

Author: @tobio it's an infra issue for the most part, i'd ask @yuvielastic

        }
    }

    kibana {
        config{
           user_settings_yaml = file("./kb.yml")
        }
    }
}

```

Let's take a closer look at one specific argument here:

> ```terraform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```hcl
```

format("%s-%s",var.name,substr("${random_uuid.uuid.result}",0,6))
```

> This will tell terraform to create a string, that looks like  ```<deployment-name>-<6-digits-of-uuid>``` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will tell terraform to create a string, that looks like  `<deployment-name>-<6-digits-of-uuid>` 
```

We'll configure the deployment alias field to be the same, so if my deployment is named "elastic-sso" it'll get created as:

> ```elastic-sso-8f9f6s``` for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`elastic-sso-8f9f6s` for example.
```

> We'll configure the deployment alias field to be the same, so if my deployment is named "elastic-sso" it'll get created as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will configure the deployment alias field to be the same, so if the deployment is named "elastic-sso" it gets created as follows:
```

> Then, using a variable in our es.yml file, and a terraform templating mechanism, we'll generate our proper es.yml file. Our variable is named kibana_url, as seen in the ec_deployment resource above: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, by using a variable in the `es.yml` file and a terraform templating mechanism, you can generate your own `es.yml` file. Your variable is named kibana_url, as seen in the ec_deployment resource: 
```

```terraform
    config{
           user_settings_yaml = templatefile("./es.yml",{kibana_url=format("https://%s-%s.kb.us-east-1.aws.found.io:9243",var.name,substr("${random_uuid.uuid.result}",0,6))})
        }
```

> This specific template, will use our name and UUID to determine the url for our Elasticsearch deployment before its even created, and put it in our `es.yml` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This specific template uses your name and UUID to determine the URL for the Elasticsearch deployment before it is even created, and stores it in the `es.yml` file.
```

```yaml
xpack.security.authc.realms.saml.auth0:
  order: 2
  idp.metadata.path: "https://<url-for-provider's metadata>"
  idp.entity_id: "urn:myproject.us.auth0.com"
  sp.entity_id:  "${kibana_url}/"
  sp.acs: "${kibana_url}/api/security/saml/callback"
  sp.logout: "${kibana_url}/logout"
  attributes.principal: "http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/upn"
  attributes.groups: "http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/claims/Group"
```

> Our kibana file should also contain the SSO provider configuration for Kibana to display it as a login option:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The kibana file should also contain the SSO provider configuration for Kibana to display it as a login option:
```

```yaml
xpack.security.authc.providers:
    saml.auth0:
        order: 1
        realm: auth0
        icon: logoSecurity
        description: "Log in with Auth0"
```

> And that's it! spinning up the above ec_deployment will created a deployment on Elastic Cloud, with a preconfigured name & an additional Auth0 SSO identity provider and login option, that's alreday configured when the deployment is spun up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And that's it! Spinning up the above ec_deployment resource will creat a deployment on Elastic Cloud, with a preconfigured name and an additional Auth0 SSO identity provider and login option, that's already configured when the deployment is spun up.
```

> And that's it! Spinning up the above ec_deployment resource will create a deployment on Elastic Cloud, with a preconfigured name and an additional Auth0 SSO identity provider and login option, that's already configured when the deployment is spun up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And that's it! Spinning up the ec_deployment resource will create a deployment on Elastic Cloud, with a preconfigured name and an additional Auth0 SSO identity provider and login option that's already configured when the deployment is spun up.
```
